[Music]
hello very good morning welcome to
breakfast with dan walker and louise
mentioned
the headlines for you at six o'clock
this morning the queen responds to harry
and megan's damaging allegations about
life in the royal family
sir what did you think of the interview
the palace says recollections may vary
but the matters particularly that of
race will be taken very seriously and
addressed privately on itv's good
morning britain presenter piers morgan
resigns after being criticized for his
attacks on megan
a serving metropolitan police officer
has been arrested in connection with the
disappearance of 33 year old sarah
everard in south london
along alive for your bridge and getting
more spins from your washing machine
good morning the government's looking at
tougher rules for household appliances
to save cash and the environment
a look at how they work jurgen klopp
says he will not be taking over as
germany manager joachim love announces
he'll be stepping down after this
summer's euros but klopp
laughs off speculation linking him with
the job
and some pretty turbulent weather with
us over the next couple of days
rain gales and some rough seas too i'll
have all the details here on breakfast
[Music]
good morning it's wednesday it's the
10th of march top story for you this
morning almost two days after it first
aired buckingham palace has responded to
the explosive interview with prince
harry and megan in a short statement the
palace said the issues raised
particularly around race were
concerning and will be addressed
privately almost 50 million people
around the world have now watched the
interview
keith doyle reports by any standards
this has been a bitter family feud
played out in the full glare of the
media with every word dissected and
analyzed for meaning
and implications and so it was from the
head of the family her majesty the queen
that a statement came last night
balancing a conciliatory tone with
firmness
while making it clear this is a private
family matter
and issues will be addressed accordingly
the statement said
the whole family is saddened to learn
the full extent of how challenging the
last few years have been for harry and
megan
the issues raised particularly that of
race are concerning
whilst some recollections may vary they
are taken very seriously
and will be addressed by the family
privately
harry megan and archie will always be
much-loved family members
yesterday prince charles was continuing
with royal duties
ignoring the question everyone wanted an
answer to
sir what did you think of the interview
one of the areas the interview with
harry and megan touched on was the role
of the british tabloid media
which in the couple's view has a racist
undertone
there's a reason that these tabloids
have
holiday parties at the palace they're
hosted by the palace
the tabloids are you know there is a
construct that's at play there
and because from the beginning of our
relationship
they were so attacking and inciting so
much
racism really i mean it changed our the
risk level because it went it wasn't
just
caddy gossip it was
bringing out a part of people that was
racist in how it was charged
britain's queen elizabeth has broken her
silence on the allegations of racism
within the palace
if anyone thought this row was going to
die down quickly they are wrong
on both sides of the atlantic it's
ignited debate
i think megan was a huge missed
opportunity because harry and megan were
obviously
screaming into their pillows you know
not being heard
um and you know first of all i i
thought initially after the interview i
thought oh that's it
the royal family have really really
quite blown it
um they have a chance to claw some of
that back a bit
uh depending on how they deal with it
the journey from harry and megan being
the bright modern faces of the royal
family
to their split from the family the move
abroad and now these damaging claims
has been rapid now with this statement
from the queen buckingham palace will
hope that things will calm down
and that the issues that it admits are
serious can be dealt with privately
however with such incendiary claims now
firmly in the public domain
that may not be so easy keith doyle bbc
news
piers morgan has left itv's good morning
britain following controversial comments
he made about the duchess of sussex
itv announced the decision after ofcom
said it had received 41 000
complaints here's david silito live from
television center in london
this is good morning britain with piers
morgan
and susannah itv's good morning britain
and there was only one topic of
conversation
on one side piers morgan who's been more
than scathing about the duchess of
sussex
on the other the presenter alex
beresford defending her comments on race
and mental health things got heated
i understand that you don't like meghan
markle you've made it so clear a
number of times on this program but yet
you continue
to trash her
soon after itv issued this statement
following discussions with itv piers
morgan has decided
now is the time to leave good morning
britain itv
has accepted this decision and has
nothing further to add he had also told
fellow itv presenter lorraine kelly
just before she appeared on last night's
one show
it's certainly going to be quieter yeah
i can imagine yeah it is but you know
what we all wish him well we we all wish
him absolutely all the best of of course
we do
piers morgan has had a long and often
controversial career
he was sacked as editor of the daily
mirror and in recent years has become an
outspoken voice about controversies on
language race and gender so-called woke
culture
and a former colleague and friend was
glad he'd spoken his mind
he's my mate i worked with him for years
he's my friend i'm gonna stand
by his right to say what he feels
and if he wants to leave the show that's
his right to
so i stand by his his you know
what he wants to say is freedom of
speech i don't think she has but yet
so thousands of complaints but he does
have millions of followers
the walkout was good for attention and
with two
new opinion-led news services preparing
to launch
the morgan style of broadcasting isn't
about to go out of fashion
david
a serving metropolitan police officer
has been arrested in connection with the
disappearance of a woman in south london
33 year old sarah everard was last seen
leaving a friend's house in clapham
last wednesday our home affairs
correspondent june kelly has more
yesterday evening police issued two new
pictures of sarah everard
in one she was wearing the coat she had
on when she disappeared
she vanished after she left a friend's
house in clapham last wednesday
she was walking home alone to brixton
she was captured on a camera at about 9
30 the last confirmed sighting
and during yesterday evening as the
police teams continued their work in
london
officers were in kent making arrests
just before midnight came the
announcement that a police officer was
in custody
in connection with sarah's disappearance
and that a woman had been detained with
him
on suspicion of assisting an offender
scotland yard issued a statement from
one of its most senior officers
assistant commissioner nick f grave he
said
the arrest this evening is a serious and
significant development
we will continue to work with all speed
on the investigation
but the fact that the arrested man is a
serving metropolitan police officer
is both shocking and deeply disturbing
over the past week police have been
scouring clapham common
including searching a pond in a
statement announcing the arrest
they said they were doing everything
they could to find sarah
june kelly bbc news
england's test and trace system has been
criticized by a group of mps who say
there's no clear evidence
it has led to a reduction in coronavirus
cases despite a budget of
37 billion pounds the cross party public
accounts committee called the spending
unimaginable and said the taxpayer
should not be treated like an
atm here's our health correspondent anna
collinson
identifying the infected locating their
contacts and isolating
a well-functioning test and trace
program is seen as crucial in the fight
against the coronavirus
but a damning report is questioning
whether england's system is effective
enough
to justify its cost 37 billion pounds
over
two years it's an eye-watering sum of
money
that's been spent and for that we need
to see you know better
results and a better clearer connection
between testing
and stemming the spread of the virus and
as so so far
the data on that is not very strong the
budget for test and trace was 22 billion
pounds when it was set up
last may a few months later the person
in charge dido harding
requested a further 15 billion claiming
the main driver would be to avoid a
second
national lockdown but two lockdowns
followed
and a group of cross-party mps say the
service must demonstrate its worth
the public accounts committee has
particularly questioned
test and trace's continued reliance on
consultants
with some paid more than 6 600 pounds a
day
and it's claimed the system was unable
to cope when schools returned in
september
and there was a surge in demand but dido
harding disagrees
nhs test and trace is an absolutely
essential component in the fight against
covert
we're hitting all of the targets that
sage set us
and you know as we speak today we're
providing an extra layer
of security and confidence
despite the vaccine rollout new variants
mean we can expect test and trace to
continue to play a key role in our lives
but many will be watching closely
to ensure taxpayers money isn't wasted
anna collinson bbc news
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news